>> Jason Pamental: I'm going to dig
a little bit more into some examples and
details about responsive typography.
And then we'll be able to start and
flip over and
look at some of the sample pages as we go.
And then we're gonna take
a look at variable fonts, and
that's going to sort of
take us up to lunch.
So I went through these earlier.
Now we're gonna go into
a little bit more detail.
So this is sort of the core tenets
of what I think about when I
say responsive typography.
So performance being the first one,
part of performance is
simply making good choices.
Making sure that when you're
choosing to use a given typeface or
font, that you are only
loading what you really need.
And that's been the hardest part about
dealing with typographic systems,
is that in print, on a magazine cover,
you might end up using eight or ten or
more different weights and variants of
a given typeface, or several typefaces.
Where on the web,
if you want to load more than three or
four, it's going to start
to become a real burden and
it's going to really start to
slow down the user experience.
So the first step is
to not add everything.
You wanna make sure that
you load what you need.
And so I've been using these terms,
typeface and font.
Recently there's been a little
bit of a question on whether or
not we need to draw the distinction.
But I do think it's important
fo you to know what people mean.
So Trade Gothic is a typeface.
It's a family.
It's got a range of widths,
a range of weights, there's italics.
When I say bold, specifically,
that is one instance of that typeface,
that's the font.
And more specifically,
that is actually a piece of software
that you're installing on your computer.
Where if we were talking about metal,
then it would be the case full of
metal formed letters
at that physical size.
So in digital type,
that font can be a range of sizes.
But it is just the bold, or
just the regular, or just the condensed.
>> Jason Pamental: Every time
you add another one of these,
you're adding more to the page load.
And you're adding more at the point in
time that will most directly impact that
person's user experience.
So adding in, well,
it's a whole other discussion about
how much JavaScript you're loading.
I won't wade into that right now.
But at least a lot of those things can be
managed a little bit more effectively and
loaded asynchronously later.
And the page can actually render.
But in order to get the page up on screen,
have the content render and
be in a usable state,
fonts are gonna be an issue.
And you need to make sure that
you're loading them properly.
So when I go into Typekit, and I made
this screenshot a while ago, but their
interface hasn't changed all that much.
When you go into Typekit,
and you create a kit,
or if you're using Google Web Fonts and
you say I wanna use this font,
and you start to check off all the
different weights that you want to use.
If I check off all of them,
and this is for quarto slab,
if I check off all the different
weights and variants, that's 450 K.
That's a lot of stuff to be loading, and
there's some real question about whether
or not I would actually
make use of all of those.
I might like to, but
I probably could make do.
And so as a designer,
my responsibility is the whole experience,
not just what I think visually looks good.
So instead I pare back.
I use two different, a sort of
a demi-bold and a demi-bold italic, and
then same thing for a book and
book-italic, so like a regular weight.
That brings it down to 121k, so
that's a little bit more manageable.
And one of the things to keep in mind
is that font assets are cacheable.
So if you're handling it properly,
that's not going to result in a penalty or
a double download from one
page view to the next.
And there are ways that
you can mitigate some of,
I think particularly Chrome
still has a weird behavior.
Do you have a question?
>> Student: Yeah, does the size impact
how long it'll take the font to load?
Or will it actually slow down
the whole site depending on
how big the font size is when
it's coming from a CDN like that?
>> Jason Pamental: Well, the size of the
asset, it's just another asset that has to
be downloaded in order to
render things correctly.
So if you're loading fonts asynchronously,
which you should do, then it's not gonna
slow down the page being rendered.
But it is going to impact repaint,
once the web font has loaded.
Now, doesn't matter whether it's coming
self-hosted from a CDN, from a service.
One way or
another the asset has to get there.
The bonus is, at least, if you're
using this stuff consistently across
the website it gets downloaded once.
Whereas if you think about that is
the same size of a JPEG that you've stuck
in the header behind a bunch of
text covering up the whole screen,
that's a different image every page.
This at least is a reused thing,
so it only happens once.